The ideal vision of learning is that it be broad, deep, fast, precise and practically relevant.
However, these virtues set a high bar that is rarely reached in current educational settings,
particularly in a world of commercial informal media that are replete with distractions.
Many Americans worry that our learning is narrow, shallow, slow (or nonexistent) and vague, with a
focus on frivolous content. Imagine a teenager spending 30 hours a week playing games, with no interest
in formal academic content. That teenager, however, might be gaining important skills of managing
limited resources, multitasking and communication with peers that scale up to the real world
(Gee, 2004; Shaffer, 2007).
Students can also benefit from serious games that smuggle in important academic content
(Ritterfeld, Cody, & Vorderer, 2009). However, there are limits to the quality of the knowledge,
skills and strategies that most games can teach us. In work settings, too, managers have limited
resources for employee training, particularly at times of extreme economic recession. These challenges
do not present a pretty picture for the ideal vision of learning.
The ideal vision of learning encourages self-regulated learning (Pintrich, 2000; Schunk & Zimmerman, 2008).
Such learners formulate their own learning goals, track their progress on achieving these goals, identify
their knowledge deficits, detect contradictions, ask good questions, search relevant information sources
for answers, make inferences when answers are not directly available and build knowledge at deep levels
of mastery. Unfortunately, the vast majority of adolescents and adults don’t acquire these sophisticated
cognitive skills. In order for self-regulated learning to succeed, a person has to have sufficient
“meta” knowledge about cognition, emotions, communication and social interaction (Hacker, Dunlosky, &
Graesser, 2009). Meta-comprehension is the knowledge we have about our comprehension processes. Examples
include the need to slow down our pace of reading when the material is difficult and to scrutinize
whether a text has contradictory claims. Meta-emotion is the knowledge a person has about the nature
and regulation of his or her emotions, such as being patient and trying harder when material is
confusing. Meta-communication is knowledge about the communication process, such as the insight that
there can be discrepancies between the author’s intended meaning and the meaning that a reader
constructs. Meta-social knowledge is knowledge about social interactions, politeness norms, status,
deception and so on.
Unfortunately, most adults don’t acquire meta-knowledge, so they need direct training to fill this void.
For example, deep comprehension of technical text involves understanding underlying mental models of
complex systems, causal relationships between events and explanations of why events occur. Strategies
of comprehending material at deeper levels are underdeveloped in most children and adults, particularly
for technical text, so they need deep comprehension strategy training (McNamara, 2007).
There is a modest (r = .27) correlation between college students’ impressions of how well they comprehend
technical text and their actual test scores on the text (Maki, 1998). Students have serious limitations
in their knowledge or judgments of memory, comprehension, learning, planning, problem-solving and
decision processes (Hacker et al., 2009). As a consequence, they are not good at planning, selecting,
monitoring and evaluating their strategies of self-regulated learning (Azevedo & Cromley, 2004; Winne,
2001), of question-based inquiry learning (White & Frederiksen, 2005; Wiley et al., 2009) and of
learning through active discovery (Kirschner, Sweller, & Clark, 2006; Klahr, 2002).
Students, whether children or adults, need to have explicit training, modeling and guided practice
before they can acquire adequate strategies of deep comprehension, critical thinking, self-regulated
learning, inquiry learning, discovery learning and other sophisticated active forms of learning.
